How to protect yourself from scams (#1007)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn-scams.md

id: learn-scams
title: How to Protect Yourself from Scams
sidebar_label: How to Protect Yourself from Scams
---

Scams have unfortunately made an impact on our community. It's important to stay alert and protect
yourself and your non-refundable crypto assets from scammers.

### Types of Scams

- Personal messages over Telegram, and other social medias
- 'Send us DOT/KSM, we'll send you double'
- Emails asking for DOT/KSM addresses, posing as a member of our team

### Admin will never contact you over Telegram

If you've received a message from an admin over Telegram, ignore it. Our Polkadot team will never
personally message you. Our social media's are posted on our website and any new social media's will
be announced by our team.

### Always check the source

For any potential scam, always be sure to do a background check on the source, i.e, look at any
username, email, Youtube channel name, etc. If something seems fishy, that's because it likely is.

### Check twice before sending DOT/KSM

A good practice to take in consideration is to verify the address you are sending crypto to. If you
don't know that account, you probably shouldn't be sending your assets to there. It is very

> important to understand that crypto is a decentralized space, if you lose your assets, that is on

Author: Does it sound too harsh here if I bluntly say 'that is on you' ?

Author: perhaps it'd sound better to say 'it is your loss' ?

Reviewer: I would rephrase to say something like "It's your responsibility to make sure that you understand where you are sending your funds to, crypto is a decentralized space and your only recourse if a mistake is made is by appealing to the council (who usually will not get involved in matters of mistaken transfers)."

---
id: learn-scams
title: How to Protect Yourself from Scams
sidebar_label: How to Protect Yourself from Scams
---

Scams have unfortunately made an impact on our community. It's important to stay alert and protect
yourself and your non-refundable crypto assets from scammers. If you ever feel you are being
scammed, please email [our support team](mailto:support@web3.foundation).

> 

Reviewer 2: Essential rules:
1. Never, ever, ever share your seed phrase or account password
1. Do not trust anyone online.  It is trivial for them to lie, change identities.
1. If you are scammed, there is likely nothing that can be done to recover your funds.  If a scammer gets a hold of your seed phrase, they can transfer all of your funds to their account in seconds.  It is better to be safe than to risk all of DOT and KSM.
1. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.  People, especially celebrities, do not give away crypto for free.  Even if they wanted to, they could just ask for your address as opposed to having you send them tokens.

Reviewer 2: 5. Scams are absolutely rife in this space.  It is easy and cheap to set a scam up, and hard to shut one down.  Therefore, the onus is on the user to be as diligent as possible in avoiding them.

### Types of Scams

> - Personal messages over Telegram, and other social medias

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Personal messages over Telegram, Twitter, and other social media
```

"media" is already the plural of "medium" =)

- 'Send us DOT/KSM, we'll send you double'

> - Emails asking for DOT/KSM addresses, posing as a member of our team

Reviewer 2: They won't ask for addresses, they'll ask for private keys/seeds/etc.  Addresses by themselves don't do much.  Or they will point users to sites that are copies of real sites but that ask to enter seeds.

> - Emails asking for DOT/KSM addresses, posing as a member of our team

Reviewer 2: Add: 
People offering to help you stake or get rewards
People answering questions you asked publicly in a private chat

Reviewer 2: Add:

Scammers will often make it seem like the 'deal' is only available for a limited time.  Do not be tricked by this, it is always better to confirm than to risk losing everything.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a bit about how scammers will take official video and add text so that it still looks like an official video.

Think about it - is it too good to be true?  Then it probably is.

> ### Admin will never contact you over Telegram

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Admins will never contact you over Telegram, Twitter, etc.
```

> If you've received a message from an admin over Telegram, ignore it. Our Polkadot team will never

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've received a message from a "Polkadot admin" or "Polkadot support", block and report it. Our Polkadot team will never
```

Reviewer 2: Telegram is a huge source of these scams but not the only one

> personally message you. Our social media's are posted on our website and any new social media's will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
personally message you first. Our social media's are posted on our website and any new social media's will
```

> personally message you. Our social media's are posted on our website and any new social media's will

Reviewer 2: Not sure what "our social media's" are.  Our social media accounts?

Link to the website (polkadot.network)

Add: we will never offer to sell you DOTs at a discount, air-drop "rewards", or message you privately to help with a problem you posted publicly.

be announced by our team.

### Always check the source

For any potential scam, always be sure to do a background check on the source, i.e, look at any

> username, email, Youtube channel name, etc. If something seems fishy, that's because it likely is.

Reviewer 2: add "Feel free to check with support@polkadot.network" again

> username, email, Youtube channel name, etc. If something seems fishy, that's because it likely is.

Reviewer 2: Many scammers will create nearly perfect imitations of sites - triple-check the URL!  Never enter any personal data after clicking on a link, always type it in yourself.

### Check twice before sending DOT/KSM

A good practice to take in consideration is to verify the address you are sending crypto to. If you
don't know that account, you probably shouldn't be sending your assets there. It is very important

> to understand that crypto is a decentralized space, if you lose your assets, that is on you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to understand that crypto is a decentralized space.  If you transfer your assets to a different address, there is nobody who can get your funds back besides the account to which you sent it..
```

### Keep your personal data secure

> One should _never_, share their secret key with anyone, nor any other personal data that is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One should _never_, share their secret key, seed, mnemonic phrase, etc. with anyone, nor any other personal data that is
```

associated with you. It's recommended to store your information safe on paper or on a hardware

> wallet.

Reviewer 2: Never enter your seed or mnemonic phrase on a website.

- Scammers will take official videos, add text to it so that it looks like an official video
- Many scammers will create nearly perfect imitations of sites - triple-check the URL
- People offering to help you stake or get rewards
- People answering questions you asked publicly in a private chat
- Scammers will often make it seem like the 'deal' is only available for a limited time. Do not be
  tricked by this, it is always better to confirm than to risk losing everything.

### Admin will never contact you over Telegram, nor any other Social Media

If you've received a message from an admin over Telegram, ignore it. Our Polkadot team will never
personally message you. Our social media's are posted on our website and any new social media's will
be announced by our team. We will never offer to sell you DOTs at a discount, air-drop "rewards", or
message you privately to help with a problem you posted publicly.

### Always check the source

For any potential scam, always be sure to do a background check on the source, i.e, look at any
username, email, Youtube channel name, URL, etc. If something seems fishy, that's because it likely

> is. Never enter any personal data after clicking on a link, always type it in yourself. Feel free to

Reviewer 3: Not clear what "always type it in yourself" refers to, looks like Personal data. Rephrase or separate sentences.

> check with support@polkadot.network.

Reviewer 3: Also add mailto link

yourself and your non-refundable crypto assets from scammers. If you ever feel you are being
scammed, please email [our support team](mailto:support@web3.foundation).

### Essential rules:

1. Never, ever, ever share your seed phrase or account password.
2. Do not trust anyone online. It is trivial for them to lie and change identities.
3. If you are scammed, there is likely nothing that can be done to recover your funds. If a scammer
   gets a hold of your seed phrase, they can transfer all of your funds to their account in seconds.
   It is better to be safe than to risk all of DOT and KSM.
4. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. People, especially celebrities, do not give
   away crypto for free. Even if they wanted to, they could just ask for your address as opposed to
   having you send them tokens.
5. Scams are absolutely rife in this space. It is easy and cheap to set a scam up, and hard to shut
   one down. Therefore, the onus is on the user to be as diligent as possible in avoiding them.

### Some Common Types of Scams

- Private messages sent to you over Telegram, Twitter, and other social media

> - "Giveaways" advertising that you 'send us some DOT/KSM, we'll send you double back'

Author: ```suggestion
- "Giveaways" advertising that you "send us some DOT/KSM, we'll send you double back"
```
nitpick

- People offering to help you stake or get rewards
- People responding to questions that you asked publicly in a private chat
- Advertisements pointing to imitations of sites asking you to enter your seed words

These are just some of the types of scams. Scammers are inventing new ones all of the time. In
general, do not trust anyone messaging you that you did not message yourself, and be wary of anyone
attempting to "help" you or offer you a deal.

Scammers will often imitate usernames, profile pictures, etc. of well-known members of the
community. Often the differences in these accounts will be very minor, such as `joe_sm1th` or
`jo_smith` instead of `joe_smith`.

Scammers will often make it seem like the 'deal' is only available for a limited time. Do not be
tricked by this, it is always better to confirm than to risk losing everything.

### Admin will never contact you over Telegram, nor any other Social Media

If you've received a message from an admin over Telegram, ignore it. Our Polkadot team will never
personally message you. Our social media accounts are posted on our website and any new social media

> accounts will be announced by our team. We will never offer to sell you DOTs at a discount, air-drop

Author: ```suggestion
accounts will be announced by our team. We will never offer to sell you DOT at a discount, air-drop
```

- Scammers will take official videos, add text to it so that it looks like an official video
- Many scammers will create nearly perfect imitations of sites - triple-check the URL
- People offering to help you stake or get rewards
- People answering questions you asked publicly in a private chat
- Scammers will often make it seem like the 'deal' is only available for a limited time. Do not be
  tricked by this, it is always better to confirm than to risk losing everything

### Admin will never contact you over Telegram, nor any other Social Media

If you've received a message from an admin over Telegram, ignore it. Our Polkadot team will never
personally message you. Our social media's are posted on our website and any new social media's will
be announced by our team. We will never offer to sell you DOTs at a discount, air-drop "rewards", or
message you privately to help with a problem you posted publicly.

### Always check the source

For any potential scam, always be sure to do a background check on the source, i.e, look at any
username, email, Youtube channel name, URL, etc. If something seems fishy, that's because it likely

> is. Never enter any personal data after clicking on a link, always type personal data in yourself.

Reviewer 2: "Never enter any personal data after clicking on a link, always type personal data in yourself."

What do you mean here?
